In defining a complete GAN,
your first task will be to build the discriminator.
This is a convolutional classifier like you've built before,
only without any max-pooling layers.
Instead, we'll be using strided convolutional layers.
The inputs to the discriminator are going to be
SVA Gen training images or generated images that are 32 by 32 by three.
Accepting this as input,
you'll then want to define a few convolutional hidden layers.
You will flatten the output of your last convolutional layer
and pass it to a fully-connected layer at the end.
As before, we want this to produce a sigmoid output,
that indicates whether an image is fake or real.
Also, as before, we'll apply the sigmoid function in the lost function,
BCE with largest loss later.
Now, for the depths of the convolutional layers,
I suggest starting with a smaller depth than is indicated here.
I suggest starting with 32 filters in
the first layer and then double that depth as you add layers.
So, from 32 to 64 to 128 and so on.
You'll also want to use batch normalization on each layer
except the first convolutional layer and final linear output layer.
You can read about BatchNorm2D at this link to the documentation here.
In general, each layer should look something like strided convolution,
followed by batch norm and then a Leaky ReLu activation function.
So, in the cell below,
I've actually provided a helper function to put these layers together,
this function which I named conv for convolutional layers,
takes in the same parameters as
a typical convolutional layer with one additional parameter,
batch_norm which is a Boolean variable true or false.
Then, based on these past time parameters,
it creates a sequential series of one or two layers,
a strided convolutional layer and an optional batch norm layer.
We'll create these using PyTorches sequential container,
which takes in a list of layers and creates layers according
to the order that they're passed in to the sequential container.
You can read more about that in the documentation here.
So, let's look at this line by line.
First, I'm preparing to create a list of layers and creating an empty list named layers.
Then, I'm defining a strided convolutional layer.
I'm passing in all the relevant parameters,
input and output channels,
kernel size stride and padding and bias is set to false,
so that these layers are not offset by any amount.
This is pretty typical for a strided convolutional layer,
I should know that I'm expecting that you'll use a kernel size of
four and a stride of two for this strided convolutions.
I've set the default parameters accordingly, a kernel size of four,
stride of two and padding of one will ensure that
each strided convolutional layer down-samples it's
input by a factor of two in the X and Y dimensions.
So, with the kernel size of four and stride two if
this layer sees a 32 by 32 images input,
it will output a 16 by 16 image.
Then you can see that I'm appending that convolutional layer to my list of layers.
Next, if the batch norm parameter is set to true,
which is the default here in the function definition,
I will add a batch norm layer on the output of our convolutional layer.
I can do this with a call to BatchNorm2D and
pass in the number of outputs it should operate on,
a number of output channels.
In the same line, I'm adding this to our list of layers.
Now, if batch normis set to false,
I will not enter this if statement and I won't add a BatchNorm2D layer.
Finally, I'm using PyTorches sequential wrapper which
takes in our list of layers and this will return those layers,
whether it's one convolutional layer or a convolutional layer and a batch norm layer.
Now, it will be up to you to use
this conv helper function to construct a complete discriminator class.
Here's the starting code for the discriminator.
You're expected to create at least three convolutional layers to complete this network,
you should increase the depth of these layers as you go.
The initial depth should be defined by this input parameter conv_dim.
This is set by default to my recommendation which has
a depth of 32 for your first convolutional layer.
Now, make sure to apply the correct batch norm functions using
our helper function and apply Leaky ReLu activations in the forward function here,
it may be helpful to look at this diagram here as inspiration.
At the end of a few strided convolutional layers,
you'll also have to include a fully connected layer that will
be responsible for returning some discriminator logits.
Alright. Next. I'll go over a solution to
this discriminator class and then we'll go
over the second part of the GAN, the generator.